README.md, before:

# Telomerecat (Telomere Computational Analysis Tool)

| Master                                        | Develop                                         |
| --------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| [![Master Badge][travis-master]][travis-base] | [![Develop Badge][travis-develop]][travis-base] |

Telomerecat is a tool for estimating the average telomere length (TL) for a paired end, whole genome sequencing (WGS) sample.

Telomerecat is adaptable, accurate and fast. The algorithm accounts for sequencing amplification artifacts, anneouploidy (common in cancer samples) and noise generated by WGS. For a high coverage WGS BAM file of around 100GB telomerecat can produce an estimate in ~1 hour.

## Docker container

Telomerecat is available as a Docker container on [Quay.io][quay-repo].

[![Quay Badge][quay-status]][quay-repo]

## INSTALL

Installation is via `pip`.  Simply execute with the URL to a package release, e.g.:

```bash
pip install https://github.com/cancerit/telomerecat/archive/3.4.0.tar.gz
```

## Basic usage

Please see the command line help:

```bash
telomerecat --help
```

### Package Dependancies

`pip` will install the relevant dependancies, listed here for convenience:

* [parabam](https://github.com/cancerit/parabam)
* [numpy](https://numpy.org/)
* [pysam](https://www.scipy.org/)
* [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/)

## Development Dependencies

### Setup VirtualEnv

```bash
cd $PROJECTROOT
hash virtualenv || pip3 install virtualenv
virtualenv -p python3 env
source env/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
python setup.py develop # so bin scripts can find module
```

### Cutting a release

The release is handled by wheel:

```bash
$ source env/bin/activate # if not already
$ python setup.py bdist_wheel -d dist
# this creates an wheel archive which can be copied to a deployment location, e.g.
$ scp telomerecat-3.2-py3-none-any.whl user@host:~/wheels
# on host
$ pip install --find-links=~/wheels telomerecat
```

<!-- Travis -->
[travis-base]: https://travis-ci.org/cancerit/telomerecat
[travis-master]: https://travis-ci.org/cancerit/telomerecat.svg?branch=master
[travis-develop]: https://travis-ci.org/cancerit/telomerecat.svg?branch=develop

<!-- Quay.io -->
[quay-status]: https://quay.io/repository/wtsicgp/telomerecat/status
[quay-repo]: https://quay.io/repository/wtsicgp/telomerecat
[quay-builds]: https://quay.io/repository/wtsicgp/telomerecat?tab=builds

Commit message:

More detailed info on docker/snigularity

README.md, after:

# Telomerecat (Telomere Computational Analysis Tool)

| Master                                        | Develop                                         |
| --------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| [![Master Badge][travis-master]][travis-base] | [![Develop Badge][travis-develop]][travis-base] |

Telomerecat is a tool for estimating the average telomere length (TL) for a paired end, whole genome sequencing (WGS) sample.

Telomerecat is adaptable, accurate and fast. The algorithm accounts for sequencing amplification artifacts, anneouploidy (common in cancer samples) and noise generated by WGS. For a high coverage WGS BAM file of around 100GB telomerecat can produce an estimate in ~1 hour.

## Docker container

Telomerecat is available as a Docker container on [Quay.io][quay-repo].

[![Quay Badge][quay-status]][quay-repo]

No "latest" image is defined, you need to specify the version you require, e.g.:

```bash
export VERSION_TEL=3.4.1 # update as appropriate
docker pull quay.io/wtsicgp/telomerecat:${VERSION_TEL}
```

## Singularity

The docker container is known to work with singularity, save the image locally via:

```bash
export VERSION_TEL=3.4.1 # update as appropriate
singularity pull docker://quay.io/wtsicgp/telomerecat:${VERSION_TEL}
```

## INSTALL

Installation is via `pip`.  Simply execute with the URL to a package release, e.g.:

```bash
export VERSION_TEL=3.4.1 # update as appropriate
pip3 install https://github.com/cancerit/telomerecat/archive/${VERSION_TEL}.tar.gz
```

## Basic usage

Please see the command line help:

```bash
telomerecat --help
```

### Package Dependancies

`pip` will install the relevant dependancies, listed here for convenience:

* [parabam](https://github.com/cancerit/parabam)
* [numpy](https://numpy.org/)
* [pysam](https://www.scipy.org/)
* [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/)

## Development Dependencies

### Setup VirtualEnv

```bash
cd $PROJECTROOT
hash virtualenv || pip3 install virtualenv
virtualenv -p python3 env
source env/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
python setup.py develop # so bin scripts can find module
```

### Cutting a release

The release is handled by wheel:

```bash
$ source env/bin/activate # if not already
$ python setup.py bdist_wheel -d dist
# this creates an wheel archive which can be copied to a deployment location, e.g.
$ scp telomerecat-3.2-py3-none-any.whl user@host:~/wheels
# on host
$ pip install --find-links=~/wheels telomerecat
```

<!-- Travis -->
[travis-base]: https://travis-ci.org/cancerit/telomerecat
[travis-master]: https://travis-ci.org/cancerit/telomerecat.svg?branch=master
[travis-develop]: https://travis-ci.org/cancerit/telomerecat.svg?branch=develop

<!-- Quay.io -->
[quay-status]: https://quay.io/repository/wtsicgp/telomerecat/status
[quay-repo]: https://quay.io/repository/wtsicgp/telomerecat
[quay-builds]: https://quay.io/repository/wtsicgp/telomerecat?tab=builds
